#**The ADS Libraries System**#

ADS provides you with a way to save and organize bibliographic records in private collections named "ADS Libraries."  
Libraries are used to save papers of interest and attach relevant information to them. For example, you could store your publications, or a set of references to be published in a paper, in a library for later use.  As you add (or "post") papers to a library, you will be given the option of tagging them to facilitate their retrieval or identification later.  In addition, library users can also add free-text annotations to records in their libraries.

As a user, you can create one or more collaborative groups of ADS users and share your library with individual users or groups, and even let them post items to your library.  For example, you could store your research group's or a journal club's reading material, or papers relevant to your research activities, in the group's library.  Each library's owner can decide what access policy applies to a shared library: 
 * read only: members (other than the owner) are granted read privileges, but cannot post records to the library
 * read and post: members can both read the contents of the library and post records to it

In addition to user-created collaborative groups, two groups are pre-defined in the ADS Libraries system:
 * all ADS Users: this group consists of all users who have an ADS account (login)
 * the General Public: libraries made readable to the general public can be viewed by anybody who has the library's url

Users who choose to make a library public can then freely share its url knowing that anybody with the link will be able to see its contents.  This is a useful way to maintain and publish a curated list of papers in ADS, e.g. one's own bibliography.

##**Using ADS Libraries**##

In order to be able to create libraries and add papers to them, you will first need to log into [ADS 2.0](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/).  If you already have an account which you created when accessing the main ADS Classic website (http://adsabs.harvard.edu), then you can use the same credentials to log in using ADS 2.0's [user account page](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/user/).  Once you have an account, simply click on the "Libraries" link in your account page to start creating and managing your libraries.  

If you have created libraries in ADS Classic, you will have an option to import them into the new system, but the two library systems will not be kept in sync going forward.  After an initial import, any further changes to the ADS Classic libraries will not be reflected here, unless you re-import the libraries once again.  Similarly, any publications added to libraries here are NOT updated in the ADS Classic libraries.

Adding records to a library is primarily done by using [ADS 2.0's search interface](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/).  Run a search, optionally narrow the results using the list of filters in the left colum, and then use the "Export" -> "in Libraries" option to post the list of selected papers to an existing or new private library.  If no papers have been selected, then all the papers in the result list (up to a maximum number) will be posted to the library system.  The user will be prompted to specify what is the maximum number of records which will be exported.  The export function will allow the user to specify which target library the records should be posted to, offering the option to create a new library if desired.

Once a library has been created, users can view its contents, modify its settings, remove entries, add tags and notes to the papers using the library's main interface.  Adding a new record is still best done from the search interface by exporting an individual record or a group of records to an existing or new library.  The contents of a library can also be easily viewed in the traditional search result context by using the option "View in search page," available at the top of a library page.  This operation exports the records in your library to the ADS search engine so that they can be further manipulated, analyzed or exported (for instance to obtain metrics or format them as BibTeX records).

##**Creating a Bibliography**##

One common use case for the ADS library system is the creation and maintenance of bibliographies.  Suppose you want to keep track of your papers but find it difficult to have a single ADS query which returns all your records and only your records due to the fact that there are other individuals with a similar name who have published in physics and astronomy.  The best way to do this is to maintain this bibliography in a library named for instance "My Papers" and update it periodically so that it will always contain up-to-date information.  By making this library public and sharing the link with your collaborators or the general public you will be able to point people to your online bibliography integrated in the ADS system.  This bibliography can easily be used to get up-to-date information about how many papers you have published, how many citations they have received, who are your collaborators, and so on.

###Example###

The steps involved in creating a bibliography are quite simple: find your papers, export them to the ADS library system, then make this library publicly accessible.  Before you get started, make sure you have logged into the ADS with your username and password as described above.  Here is a simple example illustrating the steps required to create Alberto Accomazzi's bibliography using ADS and then sharing its contents with other people:

 1. Go to the [ADS 2.0 search page](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs), and find Alberto's paper using the search _author:"Accomazzi, Alberto"_.  This generates [a list of 172 papers](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/search/?q=author%3A%22Accomazzi%2C+Alberto%22&month_from=&year_from=&month_to=&year_to=&db_f=%28astronomy+OR+physics%29&nr=&bigquery=&page=1) (as of April 2014).
 2. Let's assume you know that all these papers belong to Alberto (if this is not the case see the more elaborate example below).  To create a personal library, find the "Export" menu at the top of the results list, select "in Libraries" from the pulldown menu.  In the popup screen, find the option to create a new library (which could be at the bottom of the page), enter a new name for it (e.g. "Papers by Alberto"), click on "Create New," followed by "Apply" right below it. Complete the export by clicking "Save".
 3. Now review your papers in the library which we have just created.  Click on your account link at the top right corner of the screen and select "Your account", then click on "Libraries" in the resulting page, and finally select "Papers by Alberto" to view the library which you have just created.  The resulting page will display all the 172 papers which you have posted to this library, with an option to view them as a list of search results prominently displayed at the top of the page.
 4. This library is by default private.  In order to allow the general public to see it you will need to go to its admin page (click on the link next to "Info/Admin") and then click on the option "Make Public".  The resulting page will have a button which reads "Public Link".  Click on it, and you will be taken to [the page which displays the library's public URL](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/adsgut/postable/a3b5b873-41e8-433e-ad55-be83cdb484a5/library:Papers%20by%20Alberto/filter/html).  Simply copy and paste this URL to share it with anyone else.
 5. Now that you have done all the hard work, you can view this list in ADS 2.0.  Click on the "View in search page" gray button at the top of the library page to see the list of records in the ADS search interface.  From here you can select, for instance, the option "Analyze" -> "Metrics" to view a summary of bibliometric indicators for these papers.  Or you can view the network of your collaborators by selecting "View" -> "Author network", or even download the entire bibliography in BibTex ("Export" -> "in BibTeX").

That's it! your library is populated and shared with the rest of the world.  

###Dealing with Ambiguity###

Generating the exact list of your papers is not always simple if you happen to have a common name.  Therefore the creation of your bibliography may require additional work on your part in selecting the list of papers which should be included in it.  To illustrate this case, let's assume you are Michael J. Kurtz and want to create the list of all papers you have published.

 1. Go to the [ADS 2.0 search page](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs), and log in by clicking on the "Log in/Sign up" link on the top-right corner of the window.  Once logged in, you will see your name displayed in this position.
 2. Click on the "Search" tab, enter your search string, in this case _author:"Kurtz, Michael"_, click on "Search" and find a [list of 303 results](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/search/?q=+author%3A%22kurtz%2C+michael%22&month_from=&year_from=&month_to=&year_to=&db_f=%28astronomy+OR+physics%29) (as of March 2014).
 3. Under the "Authors" filter section on the left bar, you will see that there is an entry for "Kurtz, M".  If you open the entry by clicking on the ">" sign you will see all the ways in which Michael Kurtz's name might have appeared in the list of selected papers.  Some of the name variations found here clearly refer to you (e.g. "Kurtz, Michael J"), others refer to authors other than you (e.g. "Kurtz, M D"), and others are ambiguous (e.g. "Kurtz, M").
 4. For the purpose of building the bibliography, we can first select the papers associated with the unambiguous instances of your name and narrow down the results to that list only.  We can do this by clicking on the checkboxes next to: "Kurtz, M J", "Kurtz, Michael J", "Kurtz, Michael" and "Kurtz, Michael J", then click on the "apply" pull-down menu and select "or".  The [resulting list](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/search/?q=+author%3A%22kurtz%2C+michael%22&month_from=&year_from=&month_to=&year_to=&db_f=%28astronomy+OR+physics%29&nr=&bigquery=&aut_f=(%221%2FKurtz%2C+M%2FKurtz%2C%20M%20J%22+OR+%221%2FKurtz%2C%20M%2FKurtz%2C%20Michael%20J%22+OR+%221%2FKurtz%2C%20M%2FKurtz%2C%20Michael%22+OR+%221%2FKurtz%2C%20M%2FKurtz%2C%20Michael%20Julian%22)) consists of 276 papers, all of them belonging to you.
 5. Now we are ready to import this first batch of papers into a library.  Find the "Export" menu at the top of the results list, select "in Libraries" from the pulldown menu, and keep the number of records to be the maximum (i.e. the total number of papers in the list).  In the popup screen, find the option to create a new library.  Then find the input box for naming the library (which could be at the bottom of the page), enter a new name for it (e.g. "MJK papers"), click on "Create New," followed by "Apply" below.  You will notice that all the records now are labeled as being in the newly created library.  Complete the export by clicking "Save".
 6. Now we can concentrate on finding papers which have the ambiguous "Kurtz, M" authorship.  To do so, we go back to [the original list](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/search/?month_to=&db_f=%28astronomy+OR+physics%29&year_from=&bigquery=&month_from=&q=+author%3A%22kurtz%2C+michael%22&nr=&year_to=), open the menu for "Kurtz, M" in the Authors filter, and click on the "Kurtz, M" link.  The [resulting list](http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/search/?month_to=&db_f=%28astronomy+OR+physics%29&year_from=&bigquery=&month_from=&q=+author%3A%22kurtz%2C+michael%22&aut_f=1%2FKurtz%2C+M%2FKurtz%2C+M&year_to=&nr=) contains 26 papers, which need to be reviewed by hand in order to decide whether they are your papers.
 7. Going through the first page of the list, you identify 14 out of 20 papers which you have written.  Click the checkbox next to each one of them and then select once again "Export" -> "in Libraries".  In the popup window, select "MJK papers" as the target library, click "Apply" and then "Save".
 8. Go to the next page of search results and identify the remaining 2 papers which you have published, and repeat the procedure described in the previous step.
 9. Now we are ready to view the page for the library which we have just created.  Click on your account link at the top right corner of the screen and select "Your account", then click on "Libraries" in the resulting page, and finally "MJK papers" to view the library which you have just created.  The resulting page will display all the 292 papers which you have posted to this library, with an option to view them as a list of search results prominently displayed at the top of the page.  If you wish to make the library public, you may do so from the library's admin page as detailed above.

The time and effort required to create such a library will obviously depend on how difficult it is to disambiguate your papers in the first place.  Keep in mind, however, that one can make use of the ADS search engine filtering capabilities to narrow down the list of papers which need to be looked at by hand.  For instance, if you know that you started publishing 10 years ago, you may want to use the "Publication Year" filter to remove older publications.  Or if you have only published in astronomy papers, you could limit yourself to the Astronomy database by using the "Database" filter selection.
